vishal prakash

data scientist




































9096153599

vpraksh634@gmail.com deokar park pimple gurav pune :411061





objective

	being a data scientist enthusiast looking for the challenging opportunity ,i intend to be a part of an organization where i can constantly learn and apply my knowledge, integrate myself into the organizational culture and diligently work to add value to it.



summary



	having 3.6+ years of experience in data scientist & python development.

	experience in the development of algorithm for machine learning and deep learning python .

	experience in the image processing and nlp, computer vision.

	experience in the development of modules for ai and neural network python and other technologies.

	working experience in data manipulation and data wrangling packages in python and writing well designed, testable, efficient code by using best software development practices

	creating website layout/user interfaces by using standard html/css practices. integrating data from

	various back-end services and databases

	experience in making responsible web pages using html,css, django framework





experience



	3.6+ years of experience as a data scientist with python developer at starsun technology pvt.ltd

( www.starlinkinfo.in) from 10 july 2018 to the present.



technical skills

	data scientist technologies: machine learning, deep learning, image processing ,nlp, neural network, artificial intelligence, computer vision, statistical tool.

	languages: python, r

	bigdata- hive, pyspark, scala.

	framework - django , aws,(ec2)

	web technologies : html, css ,

	ide and tools: sts, pycharm, anaconda, notepad++

	others- azure machine learning, tableau, sql, ms office suite.



education



	diploma in data science.

	passed bachelors of engineering in electronics and telecommunication from amravati university

	with cgpa 6.53.

	passed diploma in electronics and telecommunication from msbte mumbai with aggregate of

	69.82 %.

	passed higher and secondary school certificate from maharashtra state board with 60%.

	passed secondary school certificate from maharashtra state board with 57%.



professional experience

python developer

ecommerce product classification:

	the primary goal of an ecommerce site is to sell goods online. this project with developing an e-commerce website for online product sales. it provides the user with a catalog of different

products available for purchase in the store. in order to facilitate online purchase, a shopping cart is

provided to the user.

	experience in data science technologies: python, r, and machine learning algorithms and data visualization tool tableau, deep learning, nlp

	experience working on an ecommerce application

	experience with developing object-oriented software in python

	experience developing web services (soap/rest api)

	backend software development lifecycle experience including the ability to perform independent analysis

	experience and understanding of development lifecycle

	experience in reviewing python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.

	used python's sci-kit-learn library to understand the details of a client telemarketing campaign.

	optimized the pricing of products in real-time.

	designed and applied statistical and mathematical methods for corporate analytics that were implemented into client-facing products.

	contributed model complex mobile carrier problems through using statistical, algorithmic, mining, and visualization techniques.

	produced operable insights using supervised and unsupervised machine learning.

	predictive modeled, and statistical analysis using artificial neural networks (ann)

	used machine learning algorithms to build a model able to predict which clients to engage based on a variety of client, macro, and campaign-specific characteristics.

	used python ide pycharm for developing the code and performing the unit test.

	used perforce version control system and python tools for visual studio(ptvs) ide.

	create and write result reports in different formats like text, csv, xls, and json.

	worked on csv files while trying to get input from the sql database.





projects:

fraudulent insurance claim detection technology :

	python, pyspark,numpy, scikit-learn, seaborn, random forest, logistic regression description: creating fraudulent insurance claim predicting model for our client.

	i was able to predict that the insured has fraud claim or not. so that the client could decide whether to consider its claim or to investigate further before servicing it further. i applied logistic regression, decision tree, random forest algorithm for predictions.

sentiment analysis of call conversation technology:

	automatic pdf report python, nlp, nltk, deep speech, in this project we have a client from calling process where client have inbound call process. we have detect the sentiment from the call conversation to detect sentiments of both employee and the caller to improve the process. as well we have to generate the faq’s out of this conversations.

classifier technology:

		python, nlp, nltk, python-pdfbox, apache-pdfbox, in this

	project we have client who is in the fertilizer testing . in this project we are building the automatic pdf report classifier which will classify the report as a draft report and the final report .in addition to that we have to take some annotation details of that document on the basis of the report to store some metadata of that document..











projects:

junior data scientist

financial & data analytics:

	develop data solutions using multiple sources: python, pyspark,r, and machine learning algorithms and data visualization tool tableau, deep learning, nlp computer vision, opencv,

	cnn, mask r cnn, pytorch, rnn, nn, and other platform api’s

	collaborate with team members to optimize customer

	data visualization of complex data and analytics result in the modern data visualization tool & predictive analytics

	steering rapid model creation in python using pandas,numpy, scikit-learn &plot.ly for data visualization

	analyze on system or data processes, data structures, analytics methods and apply key techniques of data science (machine learning, data mining, analysis) to build high-quality predictive system

	self dependent execution and managing to analytical and project

	identify hidden pattern or systematic risk using qualitative and quantitative data analysis

	develop solutions allowing highly effective presentation and engaging visualization for decision making

	work with the data scientist to develop a python codebase for predictive and prescriptive modeling, along with the development of other data science capabilities

	created multivariate regression-based attribution model & segmentation module using k-means clustering

	creating an nlp model for sentiment analysis  for predictive analytics in on aws(ec2)

additional details



	participated in ds global hackathon 2k19.

	hobbies : catching snakes & cooking.



	personal profile	

	date of birth : 16 july 1989

	gender : male

	marital status : single

	permanent address : buldana (maharashtra)

	current address : pune (ms)



	declaration	

i hereby declare that the information provided above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.



vishal itware